What about mobile?
So this Safari on iOS.
So I'm doing the same but remotely,
with a remote inspection here.
So if you go to a new tab, you can see
that everything goes down as on desktop,
so it's pretty similar.
The service worker is
stop almost immediately.
Okay, when you go to another tab,
it says, okay, the user is not there,
I will stop the service worker, okay.
The worker thread is still there, so this
is different from Safari on the Mac, for
some reason, it's a different algorithm.
And that's because I'm
still in the browser.
So I'm still in safari, Safari is
still the active app, okay, here.
But what happens if I change
my app to a different app?
Okay, in that case your code will
stop executing almost immediately.
Actually you have around three
seconds before you are suspended.
And that's because the whole
Safari is suspended,
it's not like iOS is killing you.
It's actually suspending Safari, so
Safari is suspending JavaScript execution,
everything, okay?
So that's iOS.
So also the same happens
with an installed PWA.
Here I have the same website but
as an installed PWA.
So when you get out of the PWA you
have like three seconds before
actually everything pauses and stop.
But there is a weird trick here,
let me show you.
So here I was testing this PWA background,
okay?
So that was the PWA that you
saw before this one, okay?
So I get out of that PWA,
but then I open another one.
So of course here, if I go back,
everything goes back to green as expected.
But what happens if I open another PWA?
For example, Airhorner, but it's
a different PWA from a different origin,
nothing to do with mine, okay?
So if I open another PWA, my PWA is back
for some reason you will see that now.
So if I open the other PWA,
my PWA is also back.
So it feels weird.
So and
if you close my PWA now it's stopped.
So what's going on here?
This is how iOS implements
PWA installation.
They are using the same process, kind of,
they're like the same browser for
all the PWAs that you have installed
on the iPhone or the iPad.
So that means that you may
have different PWA's open.
But all of them they have the same
execution rights if one is active
because the process is active, make sense?
Again, I'm going to PWA,
I'm going to Twitter PWA.
Then press the homescreen, so
now the Twitter PWA is suspended.
And then I open the Tik Tok PWA.
Twitter will also wake up.
Okay, it's a weird one it's a weird
trick but that's how it works, yeah.
>> What if it's a PWA installed
through like the app store,
like the Twitter you install-
>> Okay so
if the PWA is installed through the app
store, so that's a different app,
it's a different process,
it's going to use the web view.
And it's a complete different life cycle.
So in that case, it won't be running.
Okay, unless you reopen that app.
Okay, but have in mind that PWA is on iOS,
not on Android, on iOS,
coming from the store they're
using a different web engine.
A completely different web engine,
so from a process point of view within
the OS, it's a different process.
So they don't share anything including
the lifecycle, okay, makes sense?.
So on iOS and iPad OS, your website
becomes not visible in the lock screen.
Think about things like on desktop,
we don't think about this a lot, but yeah,
long screen.
So, yeah, maybe my app,
my website is still there.
But now my phone is locked.
Or the user goes to the home screen,
open another tab and
what was in the background, they can
be in memory or not, how can we tell?
We can't, we don't know.
If we see a background tab on iOS or
if we see a background PWA on iOS,
we don't know if it's in memory or not.
Okay, the UIs always a screenshot and
it's not updated.
Remember I mentioned that nine
years ago I did a zombie tab trick.
Well with that zombie tab we're
actually going through this.
And in the background,
the tab was actually going back to life,
it was actually a trick.
So, typically you have 2 to 3seconds,
but for
some reason sometimes it
gives you 30 seconds.
Of course nothing from Apple
officially saying what's going on.
But I couldn't find any
reason of why sometimes it
gives you more seconds to execute code,
who knows.
So but having mind that after you're done
you need to be really quick if you wanna
do something such as saving the state
in IndexDB, or something like that.
Because you don't have so much time.
If the PWA still in memory open another
PWA will also give you a background
execution rights.
Again, that's a tricky thing, but
it can be good or bad, I don't know.
But having mind that maybe you think
that your PWA is back, but it's not.
So your JavaScript code is executing
code again and you say, we're back,
the user is using our PWA again, no,
he's using another PWA, not yours, okay?
You gonna still know with an API that we
will see later if we are visible or not.
Okay, so you can still check that.
And the last thing that I
have here is Android, okay?
So on Android, of course,
the basic part is the same.
So if you open another tab, for example,
everything goes down as expected, okay?
Compared to other browsers
is actually the same.
But what is not the same, is what happens,
I think I'm going back now to the tab,
so everything is green again and 100%.
What happens if I minimize the app,
or if I press the home button,
or if I open another app?
So the worker thread is
it still executing 100%.
The service worker also.
My timers were throttle,
the standard window timers, okay?
And that will happen for
around five minutes.
For five minutes your web app
is still there unless the user
is actually killing the browser process or
the PWA process, okay?
But it will still be there for
around five minutes.
If I do that at that point is stop, okay?
But that's interesting because
that's different from iOS and
also that's different from desktop.
On desktop you can still be there forever
executing code with your timer throttle.
On Android it's five minutes,
Chrome on Android,
different browsers will work differently,
okay?
And on a PWA it's actually the same
thing because even if it's coming from
the store,
because it's using the same chrome engine.
So this is an installed PWA,
it's just the same thing.
So on Android, it's not visible, if it's
in the lock screen, in the home screen.
If you're going to the multitask way
of seeing all of your open apps.
If you open another tab or another app,
in those cases, your web app,
your JavaScript code will go
to the background, okay?.
In this case, page navigations
as on iOS can be memory or not,
the UI is just a screenshot as with iOS.
And on Chrome, you have up to 5 minutes
of execution in the background and
the service worker is roughly 30 seconds.
If there is the service
worker is doing nothing, and
there are no more HTTP network requests.
The service worker or
the browser will say okay service worker
get out I don't need you anymore for now.
Firefox in this case the page
stopped immediately.
Okay, and the worker thread has
around three minutes after that.
Different algorithms, okay?
So one of the things that we have here,
one of the problems that we
have is that it's a mess, okay?
So this is the results of this
research that I've been doing
here about what's going on.
I mean, it's not important to
go now over the diagram or
to each value doesn't matter.
The thing is that this kind of change
anytime, new versions of every browser or
new versions of the OS can
change how everything works.
So we need to plan for this, okay?
So we need to plan for
our app working in different situations